Creating new PR for Storage Blob migration guide (#15749)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/storage/Azure.Storage.Blobs/AzureStorageNetMigrationV12.md

# Migration Guide: From Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Blob to Azure.Storage.Blobs

> This guide intends to assist customers in migrating from the legacy version 11 of the Azure Storage .NET library for Blobs to version 12.

Reviewer: Do we want to say v11 specifically or just "older versions?" Because we've dealt with people trying to upgrade from way older versions to v11 first and that has proven far more effort than it is worth just getting people up to another legacy version.

Reviewer: I guess all our sidebyside examples will be v11, so maybe this isn't the correct move. Looking for other opinions on this.

Reviewer 2: I might not be well-versed in the libaries older than v11 (and maybe even v11 too) but how different is say v9 from v11? If they're too different it might be best to save doing a migration guide for v9 to v12 for later. If not then we can try to look to adding a v9 example to this migration guide later.

Reviewer: They aren't different enough to warrant a guide. But there are significant changes to internals, and anyone operating at high scale will have trouble adjusting over some major revs.

Author: There are customers using various versions (7,8,9,10,11,12) of the library but this migration guide contains code snippets in v11, that's why I specified it. I agree that if we want to add other code snippets we could generalize this statement to say "older versions". For now, we could maybe add to it saying v9 is similar and customers using v9 may find this guide helpful too.

Reviewer: Tracking separately.

Included are the following:
- Thread-safe synchronous and asynchronous APIs
- Improved performance
- Consistent and idiomatic code organization, naming, and API structure, aligned with a set of common guidelines
- The learning curve associated with the libraries was reduced

Note: The blog post linked above announces deprecation for previous versions of the library.

## General changes

### Package and namespaces

Package names and the namespaces root for version 12 Azure client libraries follow the pattern `Azure.[Area].[Service]` where the legacy libraries followed the pattern `Microsoft.Azure.[Area].[Service]`.

In this case, to install the legacy v11 package with Nuget:
```
dotnet add package Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Blob
```

It is now the following for v12:
```
dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Blobs
```

### Authentication

> #### Managed Identity

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure there's a short sample we can provide for this since it's not specific to v11 to v12 and more in the identity libraries. I think a complex stand alone solution/tutorial using MSI might be more helpful (since it requires step by step instructions on how to set up managed identity which is outside the scope of storage.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should provide a sample for authenticating with AAD (e.g. `TokenCredential`) instead

v11

TODO

v12

TODO

#### SAS

There are various SAS tokens that may be generated. Visit our documentation pages to learn how to [Create a User Delegation SAS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-user-delegation-sas-create-dotnet), [Create a Service SAS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-service-sas-create-dotnet), or [Create an Account SAS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/common/storage-account-sas-create-dotnet?toc=/azure/storage/blobs/toc.json).

v11

> ```csharp

Reviewer 2: Service SAS:
```
    string sasBlobToken;

    // Get a reference to a blob within the container.
    // Note that the blob may not exist yet, but a SAS can still be created for it.
    CloudBlockBlob blob = container.GetBlockBlobReference(blobName);

    if (policyName == null)
    {
        // Create a new access policy and define its constraints.
        // Note that the SharedAccessBlobPolicy class is used both to define the parameters of an ad hoc SAS, and
        // to construct a shared access policy that is saved to the container's shared access policies.
        SharedAccessBlobPolicy adHocSAS = new SharedAccessBlobPolicy()
        {
            // When the start time for the SAS is omitted, the start time is assumed to be the time when the storage service receives the request.
            // Omitting the start time for a SAS that is effective immediately helps to avoid clock skew.
            SharedAccessExpiryTime = DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(24),
            Permissions = SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Read | SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Write | SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Create
        };

        // Generate the shared access signature on the blob, setting the constraints directly on the signature.
        sasBlobToken = blob.GetSharedAccessSignature(adHocSAS);

        Console.WriteLine("SAS for blob (ad hoc): {0}", sasBlobToken);
        Console.WriteLine();
    }
    else
    {
        // Generate the shared access signature on the blob. In this case, all of the constraints for the
        // shared access signature are specified on the container's stored access policy.
        sasBlobToken = blob.GetSharedAccessSignature(null, policyName);

        Console.WriteLine("SAS for blob (stored access policy): {0}", sasBlobToken);
        Console.WriteLine();
    }

    // Return the URI string for the container, including the SAS token.
    return blob.Uri + sasBlobToken;
```

TODO
```

v12

> ```csharp

Reviewer: @amnguye can you add an additional sample to this document for when the new SAS APIs get released? Just like a note that 12.x and above users can use the following code, which may be more familiar to v11 users.

Reviewer: not for this PR, but just whenever the SAS API additions get merged in.

> ```csharp

Reviewer 2: ```
// Create BlobSasBuilder and specify parameters
BlobSasBuilder sasBuilder = new BlobSasBuilder()
{
    BlobContainerName = containerName,
    BlobName = blobName,
    ExpiresOn = new DateTimeOffset
    IPRange = new SasIPRange(System.Net.IPAddress.None, System.Net.IPAddress.None)
};
// Set Permissions
sasBuilder.SetPermissions(BlobSasPermissions.Read);

// Create SasQueryParameters
BlobSasQueryParameters parameters = sasBuilder.ToSasQueryParameters(sharedKeyCredential);

// Create Uri with SasToken
BlobUriBuilder uriBuilder = new BlobUriBuilder(blobUri)
{
    Sas = sasBuilder.ToSasQueryParameters(constants.Sas.SharedKeyCredential)
};
Uri sasUri = uriBuilder.ToUri()
```

Reviewer 2: This is to create a service SAS. Did we also want to add one for user delegation sas?
For UserDelegation Sas it is essentially the same snippet with the exception of this line
`BlobSasQueryParameters parameters = sasBuilder.ToSasQueryParameters(sharedKeyCredential);`
should be changed to
`BlobSasQueryParameters parameters = sasBuilder.ToSasQueryParameters(userDelegationKey, accountName);`

We should look to add account sas for the Azure.Storage.Common migration later.

// This code snippet creates a service level SAS that only allows reading
// from service level APIs
AccountSasBuilder sas = new AccountSasBuilder
{
    // Allow access to blobs
    Services = AccountSasServices.Blobs,
    // Allow access to the service level APIs
    ResourceTypes = AccountSasResourceTypes.Service,
    // Access expires in 1 hour!
    ExpiresOn = DateTimeOffset.UtcNow.AddHours(1)
};
// Allow read access
sas.SetPermissions(AccountSasPermissions.Read);
// Create a SharedKeyCredential that we can use to sign the SAS token
StorageSharedKeyCredential credential = new StorageSharedKeyCredential(StorageAccountName, StorageAccountKey);
// Build a SAS URI
UriBuilder sasUri = new UriBuilder(StorageAccountBlobUri);
sasUri.Query = sas.ToSasQueryParameters(credential).ToString();
// Create a client that can authenticate with the SAS URI
BlobServiceClient service = new BlobServiceClient(sasUri.Uri);
// Make a service request to verify we've successfully authenticated
await service.GetPropertiesAsync();
```

> Summary:

Reviewer: What is this meant to be?

Author: It was meant to be a brief description of the underlying changes we made to give the developer a better idea of the differences they're looking at. But it could be unnecessary too. If the summaries don't add much value then it doesn't make sense to keep them. What do you think?

#### Connection string

The following code assumes you have acquired your connection string (you can do so from the Access Keys tab under Settings in your Portal Storage Account blade). It is recommended to store it in an environment variable. Below demonstrates how to parse the connection string in v11 vs v12.

Legacy (v11)
```csharp
string connectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING");
// Check whether the connection string can be parsed.
CloudStorageAccount storageAccount;
if (CloudStorageAccount.TryParse(storageConnectionString, out storageAccount))
{
    // If the connection string is valid, proceed with operations against Blob
    // storage here.
}
else
{
    // Otherwise, user needs to define the environment variable.
}
```

v12
```csharp
string connectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING");
// Create a client that can authenticate with a connection string
BlobServiceClient service = new BlobServiceClient(connectionString);
// Make a service request to verify we've successfully authenticated
await service.GetPropertiesAsync();
```

### Shared Access Policies

> TODO

Reviewer 2: We actually already have samples for this. This site has it https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-stored-access-policy-define-dotnet?tabs=dotnet

### Client hierarchy

In the interest of simplifying the API surface we've made a three top level clients that can be used to interact with a majority of your resources: `BlobServiceClient`, `BlobContainerClient`, and `BlobClient`.

> [//]: # (Blob Metadata, properties, and attributes...)

Reviewer: What is this doing? I don't see anything rendering in the rich view.

Author: It's how you leave a comment in Markdown apparently. I wanted to leave that comment as a reminder to add some migration info on that topic.

### Client constructors

> | v11 | v12 |
> |-------|--------|
> | `CloudStorageAccount` | `BlobServiceClient` |
> | `CloudBlobContainer`  | `BlobContainerClient` |
> | `CloudBlobClient` | `BlobClient` |
> | `CloudBlockBlob` | `BlockBlobClient` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| v11 | v12 |
|-------|--------|
| `CloudStorageAccount` | `BlobServiceClient` |
| `CloudBlobContainer`  | `BlobContainerClient` |
| `CloudBlobDirectory` | Not supported |
| `CloudBlob` | `BlobBaseClient` |
| `CloudBlockBlob` | `BlockBlobClient` |
| `CloudPageBlob` | `PageBlobClient` |
| `CloudAppendBlob` | `AppendBlobClient` |
```

### Creating a Container

v11
```csharp
// Create the CloudBlobClient that represents the Blob storage endpoint for the storage account.
CloudBlobClient cloudBlobClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudBlobClient();
CloudBlobContainer cloudBlobContainer =
    cloudBlobClient.GetContainerReference("yourcontainer");
await cloudBlobContainer.CreateAsync();
```

v12
```csharp
// Create a BlobServiceClient object which will be used to create a container client
BlobServiceClient blobServiceClient = new BlobServiceClient(connectionString);
// Create a unique name for the container
string containerName = "yourcontainer";
// Create the container and return a container client object
BlobContainerClient containerClient = await blobServiceClient.CreateBlobContainerAsync(containerName);

> ```

Reviewer: It suggestion syntax not happy with nested code blocks. Below is a suggested change where the side-by-side examples have the same code structure. Then a shortcut method is introduced.

```csharp
// Create a BlobServiceClient object which will be used to create a container client
BlobServiceClient blobServiceClient = new BlobServiceClient(connectionString);
BlobContainerClient containerClient = blobServiceClient.GetBlobContainerClient("yourcontainer");
await containerClient.CreateAsync()
```

Alternatively, you can skip a step in v12 by with `BlobServiceClient.CreateBlobContainer()`:

```csharp
// Create a BlobServiceClient object which will be used to create a container client
BlobServiceClient blobServiceClient = new BlobServiceClient(connectionString);
BlobContainerClient containerClient = await blobServiceClient.CreateBlobContainerAsync("yourcontainer");
```

> Summary: In v11, a `CloudBlobClient` was required to get a reference to the desired blob container. In v12, the intermediate step `cloudBlobClient.GetContainerReference("yourcontainer")` was removed.

Reviewer: This wasn't removed. This should convey that the old methods have exact v12 counterparts.

### Uploading Blobs to a Container

v11
```csharp
// Assumes cloudBlobContainer already contains a reference to the container.
// filename is the intended blob name as a string
// localFilePath should be the path to the local file you want to upload
// Get a reference to the blob address, then upload the file to the blob.
CloudBlockBlob cloudBlockBlob = cloudBlobContainer.GetBlockBlobReference(filename);
await cloudBlockBlob.UploadFromFileAsync(localFilePath);
```

v12
```csharp

> // Assumes containerClient already contains a reference to the container.
> // filename is the intended blob name as a string
> // localFilePath should be the path to the local file you want to upload
> // Get a reference to a blob
> BlobClient blobClient = containerClient.GetBlobClient(filename);
> // Open the file and upload its data
> using FileStream uploadFileStream = File.OpenRead(localFilePath);
> await blobClient.UploadAsync(uploadFileStream, overwrite: true);
> uploadFileStream.Close();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Assumes container already exists on the service.
// blobName is desired name of new blob in the service
// localFilePath should be the path to the local file you want to upload
// Get a reference to a blob
BlobClient blobClient = containerClient.GetBlobClient(blobName);
// choose the file to upload
await blobClient.UploadAsync(localFilePath, overwrite: true);
```

uses more similar signatures for side-by-side

```

> Summary: In v11, a file path was used to upload a blob. In v12, `Stream` is used to upload a blob's content.

Reviewer: streams and file paths can be used in both

### Downloading Blobs from a Container

v11
```csharp
// Assumes you have already created a reference to the blob via blobClient
// downloadFilePath should be the path to the intended file to download the blob to
await cloudBlockBlob.DownloadToFileAsync(downloadFilePath, FileMode.Create);
```

v12
```csharp
// Assumes you have already created a reference to the blob via blobClient
// downloadFilePath should be the path to the intended file to download the blob to
BlobDownloadInfo download = await blobClient.DownloadAsync();
using (FileStream downloadFileStream = File.OpenWrite(downloadFilePath))
{
    await download.Content.CopyToAsync(downloadFileStream);
    downloadFileStream.Close();

> }

Reviewer: We have download to file. use similar samples

```

> ### Listing Blobs in a Container

Reviewer: We didn't force people to manually iterate over pages in v11. We just had separate methods for a lazy enumerable vs getting each page on your own. I think it's actually important to highlight both mechanisms for this section, because manually handling individual pages is a bit complex in v12, and we'll want to give a direct migration for that as well.
